# Basic Concepts

This section will talk all about the V8 JavaScript engine which is used by Chrome and Node to execute JavaScript

## Important Concepts

- Processors - the Central Processing Unit (CPU)
- Machine Code -
- C++

#### Processors

The processor or micro-processor is the brain of your computer and it will understand some kind of processor architecture (Instruction code). Those set of instructions are:

- IA-32
- x86-64 
- ARM
- MIPS

### Machine Code

All code (Java, C#, Node) will eventually be compiled into something that the processor can understand which is **machine code**. It is important to note that generally we don't write in the low-level machine code instead we write on higher-level languages such as in modern programming languages: Java, C++, C#, Node, etc.



### C/C++

C and C++ are programming languages that still have control in memory. In comparison with other high-level programming languages such as Java and JavaScript we don't typically deal with memory (it's automatically made for us). 

So what's the importance of C++ in Node? It's because Node is written in C++ (specifically the V8 engine is), which implies that everything that you write in Node will be processed in V8 (C++).



# JavaScript

JavaScript is mainly used in the web to add behaviors to web pages and with the advent of Node.js it is currently being used not only in the front-end but also in the back-end



### What is ECMAScript?

ECMAScript is a standard where JavaScript is based on.

### Why the need for a standard?

Essentially, browsers have different implementation of JavaScript in their engines and to have a standard is a must. An example would be in the early implementation of browsers, you have a different JavaScript engine for Internet Explorer and likewise for Firefox and in having a standard it will lessen the difference between coding compatibility your code in your webpages



### What is a JavaScript engine?

A JS Engine is what parses your JavaScript code, and processes it to the processor

### What are the different JavaScript engines?

- V8 engine is used by Chromium, Safari and Chrome



# The V8 Engine



### Who developed the V8 engine?

Google developed the engine, and is free and open-source



### What language is V8 written?

V8 is written in the C++ language



### How does it work?

Your JavaScript code will be parsed by the engine (C++ code) and that engine will be converted into machine language (what the processor can be run)



### Can you extend the V8 engine?

Yes, V8 has hooks which you can add features upon. This will mean that you can extend the JavaScript language as well - essentially this is where Node comes in - bindings of JavaScript to C++ under the hood.













